# LDA Topic Modeling machine Learning

## Background
Social scientific studies often involve human coders to read open-ended responses and code each response with numbers, so that follow-up statistical analysis can be employed. This type of method usually suffers several disadvantages.
1.	Human coders can suffer fatigue and unreliability issues, which may result in unreliable coding for further analysis.  
2.	Human coders are usually cost inefficient and are harder to find compared to computers.  

The present project aims at using machine learning technique to code textual responses. With minimal input and guidance, a machine can code the textual responses within seconds and with no fatigue and high reliability. The entire project consists of three part and two datasets I have collected in previous studies.
First, I will employ the first dataset to test the LDA (Latent Dirichlet Allocation) method in abstracting topics from open-ended responses. The first step is to ensure that meaningful different topics can be recognized by the machine and there are distinctive different topics in the dataset. This is an insurance policy to make sure that scholars are making meaningful inference and usage with the programming.
Second, I will use the same dataset to improve the procedure. In particular, I will use graphical illustrations to determine the number of salient topics in the corpus. And the significant words in each of the topics. In this part, meaningful interpretations of the results will also be provided, based on social scientific theories and research. 
Third, I will improve the program so that it can fit various demands in social scientific studies. Due to the complexity of human behavior, social scientific studies usually have different specific demands in different areas. For example, people may declare several meanings in one responses. The last step is to improve the program to adapt to different environment. 
## Research Interest
Entertainment is a big part of human life and consumes significant amount of everyone’s time. The concept of enjoyment has always been a focus of research since people want to understand what we enjoy and why we enjoy some content over the other. The two-factor model developed by Oliver and Raney (2011) suggest that people in general enjoy content that has either hedonic or eudaimonic values. People not only like content with hedonic values to seek fun, laugh and “shallow” enjoyment, but also enjoy content with eudaimonic values to find life meanings, personal growth, or intellectual challenge. Other than the two-factor model, tremendous amount of research suggests the social function of entertainment. People enjoy entertainment with other people and the relatedness it provides. The present projects use open-ended responses collected in two studies to understand the enjoyment experiences of video games and movies: What are the functions of these contents in their point of view?
